Transcript
00:00:00
Gene Pugh: COLON, Republic of Panama
 
00:00:05
Gene Pugh: In December 1943, My father from California, Blond hair blue eyes about six foot 1. Kind of like a rancher if you looked at me he resembled a little bit of Gary Cooper the famous movie actor. That's what he kind of looked like and my mother had a man in black hair and kind of like that about no pants. Glenn you may want to call it and you know Latin American. On my mother's side she was the daughter of one of the revolutionary heroes of Panama. The 19 though during the revolution that was my grandfather her father. I have one younger brother who was born 18 months later this month was Edward. And the reason superior was the two boys in 1948 when we went to Venezuela. And my father was a contractor for one of the royal companies and survived primary schooling was basically believe it or not under a Canadian educational system.
 
00:01:53
Gene Pugh: He closed the school that we had the rough road Star School was based under Canadian educational system which is kind of strange. Yeah.
 
00:02:05
Gene Pugh: And then in 1954 when my mother came back up to Panama and so my brother and I went back to the American schools and we found out that we were much more advanced in the Canadian schools than we were in the American school. And then about a year and a half later because my father was working on some projects there in Venezuela so he couldn't come and join us immediately. So then in 1956 my father finished up the staff and sold his company and everything else in Venezuela and moved up to Panama and went to work for the Army as a civilian. And we lived in a military post and I continued my my my schooling. I graduated in nineteen sixty two I was an average student and participating in a lot of plays.
 
00:03:27
Gene Pugh: I was also a member of the Junior ROTC program the US two reserve officers string quartet which helped me a lot.
 
00:03:37
Gene Pugh: My brother and I were also very active in the Boy Scouts explore our troops in Fort Glick and that helped me out very much in Vietnam also. My father passed away in July of 1962 right after my graduation. I went to two years of college canals on college here in Balboa and in the canal zone there in Panama and after my two years there are multiple applications to various universities and colleges here and in one of the very first ones to accept me was North Texas State University. You were in debt to Texas.
 
00:04:34
Gene Pugh: Yeah and so I accepted that and moved up here to Denton Texas and my major at that time was foreign languages - Spanish French and I audited. I did not take credit but I audited Russia for a semester and really got the money down in the the latter part of 65. The very first part of 66 and so a nuclear bomb. I did not go back to college even though I had my four year college but I needed one more semester to get my degree and just didn't have the money then.
 
00:05:27
Gene Pugh: So I joined the army and they said hey you can make a good part take this because I had four years of college.










