Transcript
And so when I was in basic training at Fort Polk Louisiana and I was there in February and it was very very cold.
 
00:05:51
Gene Pugh: And the lieutenant the executive officer of my train company rounded up a whole bunch of guys that had college and said hey you know we need you guys become officers a couple of days after that I was at the Phoenix and I heard this voice booming voice said private you cover here.
 
00:06:23
Gene Pugh: And of course I turned around and I saw this guy and all I saw was this gold ball on his helmet. It was a second lieutenant. So I'd go up there I snapped to attention and then he starts reading me the riot act and then all of a sudden he looks up this helmet a little bit he goes hunting and it's neat Steve.
 
00:06:46
Gene Pugh: And he's the guy that I knew from North Texas State University. "What are you doing here?" I said Well I'm in the army now and there is a lot to put his helmet back down you know to just cover his eyes and get over here behind the Jets. I want to to the pilot and so we get around. But Clarkson knows what wouldn't come doing here you know.
 
00:07:11
Gene Pugh: And so we talked a little bit and I told him that I was considering taking the offer of becoming an officer. And he said don't do it don't do it don't do it. I said Why not. He said Take a look at the casualty report and the Army Times which I did. And lo and behold it must have been a bad week for second lieutenants because there was a law the second lieutenant that had been killed.
 
00:07:47
Gene Pugh: So I went back to the first sergeant and I said first sergeant would like to reconsider my application to become an officer. I'd have to experience the army first before I take that drastic step. He was happy with that. Couple weeks later they had what they call the end service recruiters and these are you know the army would say hey we need a lot of helicopter pilots and we need virtually kidnapped. So we recruit from within the army that are the military. And so we all went there to go to the theater post theater and so doing some people on the stage and says you know we have some people here that would like to become helicopter pilots they raise their hand and want people you at you people want to become more paratroopers Okay so intelligent first at the very end of the stage was this guy. In this day I still remember him. Sergeant First Class blue miner.
 
00:09:05
Gene Pugh: Am I and ore miner and drab. I'm looking for volunteers. Jersey bar. Just because you volunteered to get in the Special Forces that doesn't mean you know where those covered in green beret I my hand. And shortly after that article you have a battery of tests.
 
00:09:40
Gene Pugh: Psychological. It was a psychological test. There was no physical touch. There was no no no physical test at that time.
 
00:09:50
Gene Pugh: And since I was joining Special Forces in order to get into special forces you have to be airborne qualified in their words you have to be paratrooper. So in the summer of 1966 I went to Fort Benning Georgia to earn my paratrooper wings and I spent three weeks there.
 
00:10:20
Gene Pugh: And my first weekend because maybe they bussed us from there to Fort Bragg.
 
00:10:31
Gene Pugh: And that more that Monday morning we went to the set of bleachers that were behind the barracks and there must have been 240 250 men may have even been 260 people. There was a lot of people there but I know that it was over 240 because there was.
 
00:10:59
Gene Pugh: When the candidates out then when there were some that were standing and then some self-worth someone back to 50 men to 60. And I see all these guys that look like Clint Eastwood.
 
00:11:17
Gene Pugh: In a square jaw steely eyed you know. He used against blacks for breakfast and they stood up thumbtacks you know that kind of stuff you know. And there were some guys that looked like Arnold Swanson and the Martians everywhere. And. Then.
 
00:11:35
Gene Pugh: I'm going Oh my God I don't have a player in this outfit and I don't. And so long we had a series of tests more tests. And then the training started. And some of you may not seen men minutes. Do a lot but it wouldn't be. 730 you're up there and the go of the barracks. And we give you a knapsack with 60 pad on time and a lot of sand in it and then go ahead and pick up two boxes of C rations. We don't have a choice of what you're going to get. They just handed to you. You put those in there and then they give it you can change the water. And there's always this wonder if the low lives are too long ago on. Of course the Samson says I'll let you know when we get there. So we start hiking and we had hoped and hoped around noon time we stop something to eat. And we kept on hike and kept on high in March for thirty five o'clock or something like that. We had our supper in about that time a set of trucks showed up. And you could see him being a parking lot or half a mile up in of us farthest and boy we're just really really happy with Sergeant stop this. Like I said about half a mile from where the trucks are tonight.
 
00:13:29
Gene Pugh: How many of them want to sleep in the barracks tonight. About face. We had to march back to the barracks. And a lot of guys just quit right then and there. I mean they said no no no no I'm not going to do this you won't. That's. No more energy and had to leave the trucks more work more for the quitters.
 
00:13:59
Gene Pugh: Yeah the trucks the worst on the quitters because by the time we got back to the barracks those guys weren't there. They had to come back to the barracks. They packed up their stuff and shipped them out of.
 
00:14:21
Gene Pugh: Ship probably got their noticed quarters were not there and they wouldn't they would give us a proper example if you had to cross long Creek Little Creek. And they would give you a ball. We're not sure that the creek was there it's 15 feet wide but they only gave you a 13 foot board and they only gave you a twelve foot rope and they gave these four sticks of three feet and each leg get across it and don't get wet. I know. Because if you got wet, you fail.
 
00:15:33
Gene Pugh: Oh great. How in the heck are we going to do that. And you know we figured it out you know. And so they gave us problems to just solve and everything else.
 
00:15:50
Gene Pugh: And they had us work as a team. They never yelled at us. They never screamed and they create situations where we wanted to see who was going to be the leader and who was going to follow who was going to be the leader who was the one that had no idea what was going on. No they had no idea what was going on.
 
00:16:17
Gene Pugh: They left. They disappeared in the middle of night somewhere.
 
00:16:25
Amanda Li: Did most people quit on their own or were people dismissed?
 
00:16:34
Gene Pugh: They were dismissed. I'm saying that about 80 percent 85 percent quit on their own man. There was a small percentage that just didn't have it. You know they weren't there. No one don't. There was one guy there like a foot. You know very athletic young and he put his us all to shame physically, but he just didn't have the aptitude and so he left. And in fact he thought he was going to really make it because he was you know very athletic very very very strong and a lot of stamina and so on and so forth but he just didn't have the mental aptitude for it and everything was either black or white. There was no gray area. He couldn't adapt instrument when he was politely asked to leave on the radio operator.
 
00:18:04
Gene Pugh: That was my primary MLS.
 
00:18:08
Gene Pugh: And after nine months I was one of one of 44. They walked across the stage to get my beret out of the two hundred and fifty sixty guys stand of the class. And I was assigned to Charlie Company of the circus. And I was assigned to an 18. And then my training continued.
 
00:18:37
Gene Pugh: And I was cross trained as a medic and I was cross cross trained as a you know intelligence analyst and because I was going to go to camp I was trained in camp defense and then company type tactics and learned how to repel helicopters.
 
00:19:06
Gene Pugh: You the training just continue that and had a different take place.
 
00:19:12
Gene Pugh: And I was now with a group of seasoned veterans now. I was part of a team and I had no one asked for volunteers to go to Ranger School and I raised my name and a couple of days later I got my orders to go to Vietnam so I never went to Ranger school. Because overseas deployment supersedes training. So, I never went to Ranger school.











