Transcript
And when I got to Vietnam. I thought I was going to be assigned to an armed camp.
 
00:20:02
Gene Pugh: Because I already had a top secret clearance tank top secret clearance. I was assigned to. C & C detachment. And detachment. Is. Part of Mac v SOG military assistance command Vietnam studies and observation group C detachment came under OCS 35 which was ground reconnaissance and I went up to Danang which is often hardcore. And at that time. On before. That's what I was going to up the road but the main headquarters of the clearinghouse for CMC and I was kept there at the very beginning.
 
00:21:04
Gene Pugh: They took me in the message center because I was a radio operator and I told them that I would only accept this on a very very temporary basis because I wanted to Lincoln.
 
00:21:18
Gene Pugh: And he said What do you find your no replacement. No. You go to the Chiefs. Well it took me a while to find a replacement but I got a replacement for things I did. I through the recall change and I never in August of vengeance won. Artists the twenty third 1968.
 
00:21:41
Gene Pugh: I don't remember with just a few months our camp got attacked by North Vietnamese sappers and we lost 16 Americans in the first 10 minutes of the attack. And the enemy was inside the camp. So we had to fight from within sight of the camp to try to drive the enemy outside and find some minor wounds. Trust me a little longer. There was a work thing going on throughout the camp. Individual heroic things.
 
00:22:37
Gene Pugh: It was a long night, very long night. And then in November of 68 towards the end of it. I joined RG ASP asked which is snake and RG ASP had been wiped out. In March of 68 that's kind of an idea on what kind of environment we were in.
 
00:23:17
Gene Pugh: You are missions most to gather information. Troops and hospitals on locations of the enemy. High speed trials all sorts of stuff. Let's get information. When that information back to the Saigon where they were pinned on a map and intelligence would be gathered from lobbyist information. That's what I did.
 
00:23:49
Gene Pugh: The gathered information and their team was comprised of former North Vietnamese soldiers and it was rather interesting.
 
00:24:06
Gene Pugh: It was always in the back of my mind because they knew where we were. They would probably you know shoot us and kill us and go back to being the enemy.
 
00:24:25
Gene Pugh: We got ourselves into some emotions firefights.
 
00:24:31
Amanda Li: Would you like to share some memorable experiences?
 
00:24:48
Gene Pugh: All memorable in the wrong way.
 
00:24:55
Gene Pugh: I want to give an example. My longest shot was between 40 to 50 yards. That's about half a football field. There was my longest shot. Most of the action took place between 9 to 20 yards.
 
00:25:22
Amanda Li: That's very close.
 
00:25:24
Gene Pugh: Damage close quarter combat. Yes. And so we're all memorable and since. We. Were running from the enemy and then we stop and we do a hasty ambush on him.
 
00:25:50
Gene Pugh: And you let them go by and they are so close to you that if if you had a three foot pole, you could reach out and touch them. That's how close they got to you and your heart is pounding out of your chest and that big booming sound that you hear in your ears and wishing that someone would stop as your heartbeat that is pounding so long out so loud that you can hear it in your ears.
 
00:26:36
Gene Pugh: And you're scared. I mean you are scared.
 
00:26:43
Gene Pugh: Scared and everything is moving in slow motion and your only reason is moving a slow motion is because your mind is moving so fast and your body's trying to keep up with what your mind that's why it seems like it's in slow motion and building. But in reality you're going as fast as you can go. Physical but your mind is growing so fast that it sound as it seems like it's this in slow motion.
 
00:27:30
Gene Pugh: I remember one particular little incident when the guys were literally on top of us and when corn starting to shoot began the shot fell on top of it. That's how close it was.
 
00:27:56
Amanda Li: So if the enemy was so close to the recon teams was it difficult to order airstrikes to keep them at bay?
 
00:28:05
Gene Pugh: Oh yeah. Oh yeah. But the idea is that if you if you change your eyes by surprise and you're that close, you can accept a lot of damage and then you run and if your have during contract with the with the copy you'll find no controller and let people flying above you and land you throw ball smoke grenade you know and you keep on running and you stay for the smoke and the smoke and the smoke you get one right behind you.
 
00:28:58
Gene Pugh: So hopefully you have one hour maybe a good 50 yards by the time they start dropping the bombs or maybe a good 75 yards but the guys found out that Brett O'Donnell suddenly saw grudge. But you know smoke they would stop and start heading back. Then they would disperse because they knew that the Air Force was going to drop Obama.
 
00:29:36
Gene Pugh: And remember that that we didn't have the technology that we have today when they had these laser guided bombs. You know they see red smoke or low smoke or whatever literally drop a bomb as close as they can to that smoke. Well maybe 50 yards or 75 yards off and now in one location these guys run and drop it a little bit go long shot Gosh I'm sweating. And the only thing that saved us was the fact that we had gone down a little embankment where the bomb went off because all the debris went right over our heads. Now that embankment was not there that little ambush little show that we went into. I wouldn't be talking with you today yeah.
 
00:30:56
Gene Pugh: We went down this small little rubbing little gully type of thing and run about that time called Ben.
 
00:31:03
Gene Pugh: Of course it's not but flat on a buck. The breath out of us but you know look I lie in a daze trying to figure out which planet we were in. And then of course it killed everybody behind us. So no one was following us. But it took us a couple of minutes to kind of figure out which way was up.
 
00:31:39
Gene Pugh: So the terrain could be deadly but also a friend at times never seen it.
 
00:31:45
Gene Pugh: And it's just like going into a forest here you're going to afford something in Texas or whatever it goes up and down and you know this is not flat persay. You have a little little mounds of dirt little little valleys and ravines and so on so forth. Very good brush though that we were able to buy down that way but again it was just an along these lines.
 
00:32:23
Gene Pugh: If we had the opportunity I would really like to show a picture of a real stop moving picture and Roland like to run through the jungle and on the beach on the beach that can form self worth when visibility is in now three feet two feet five feet and then it opens up and then you could see 10 yards or whatever.
 
00:32:59
Gene Pugh: Have you ever been up in the woods in Austin?
 
00:33:13
Amanda Li: No not really.
 
00:33:16
Gene Pugh: Okay look, if you have a chance take a little hike of course with friends and everything else that I don't want out there by yourself walking with your family and trying and I just want to go you know just walk around the woods there and get an idea of kind of what it was like not. Yeah. In the woods in Texas and I know they've got trees out there.
 
00:33:51
Gene Pugh: But just kind of got off the beaten path again with you know with your family and what have you and make sure you have a stick to ward off the snakes and then kind of giving the idea you know what the jungle would that would have been like know in Southeast Asia.
 
00:34:14
Amanda Li: There was also the elephant grass wasn't there that grew really really tall.
 
00:34:21
Gene Pugh: Some you know I mean elephants weren't I mean there were not there all I mean we would come across an awesome trail where elephants are sitting in the jungle an elephant locked in a straight line behind each other there would they would not flat out you know in a single file in the jungle.
 
00:34:45
Gene Pugh: So they would create a triangle and oftentimes the enemy would would you know these elephants to make sure yelps and in fact that it was a pain in pontoon was using that core.
 
00:35:14
Gene Pugh: And then I remember reading the report where they heard a lot of noise and everything else and they couldn't figure out what was going on again because of jungle visibility. They they they couldn't see very far. And then suddenly they said the city itself crashed into the woods through the jungle. So of course they moved out of the way not knowing that there was a guy on top of the outside and it must have been about I don't know he said but find elephants and we're all walking in trail and behind them was an enemy unit the elephants were making the trail for the enemy.
 
00:36:07
Amanda Li: What do they use these trails for?
 
00:36:12
Gene Pugh: Well we get from one place to another and we're gonna use it to one go to one camp to another or whatever. And that trail would be kind of like all interstate 35. Or it would become long the loop around Austin or it would become all looks like the end of that street that goes through all Austin from land passes to another place like that where it goes. Yeah. So. If there was no triangle at the very beginning they would use the elephants to make a trail. Because let's say that I knew where the enemy.
 
00:37:12
Gene Pugh: Know where we're an enemy trail was. And I would try to do an ambush there. Well the enemy would know that I would be out there trying to do an ambush on a trail and they would say we are going to send all these Americans going to make a long trail and we're going to go. We move mean we're struggling with to land passes but we're still going to get lost. Are you off to San Antonio. We're not going to use I. Thirty five. Oh my God. Know we're down to San Antonio using the elephants because they would know that was a very good chance that we wouldn't do an ambush around San Marcos or around New Braunfels. Never go. We're going to follow the Americans we're make a long trip down the San Antonio.
 
00:38:28
Amanda Li: So it was part of your job to find those new trails I suppose.
 
00:38:33
Gene Pugh: And yes it was. And the thing about by finding an elephant trail is in a week or two, that elephant trail would go back up again as if nothing happened there. 
 
00:38:58
Gene Pugh: So now we know when it rained and everything else. The jungle reclaims everything very very quickly.
 
00:39:18
Amanda Li: Oh yeah. Oh just so you mentioned before that you were like a radio operator in the recon teams. What was it like to carry a really really heavy radio around and kind of just be the person who communicates with the base?
 
00:39:42
Gene Pugh: On my team, the team leader he's the team leader chose to carry the radio. Oh OK. That's what he wanted to show you to your radio. The radio would weigh about 25 pounds. OK. I would carry the extra battery. But I would also carry. Injuries out of the studio and out of his ammunition and things of that nature. So because you couldn't carry all that because it wouldn't have enough room in his backpack to carry all his food all his ammunition and have. So.
 
00:40:24
Gene Pugh: All arbitrary part of his food I would carry the extra power badly. But he returned carrying the radio. So that song was on my team and in some teams the assistant team leader because that's what I was, an assistant team leader, would carry the radio. So it depends on. What that Team Leader wanted.
 
00:41:04
Amanda Li: So when you guys were carrying missions. Was it mostly in I don't know pronounces like that A Shau valley or a prairie fire.
 
00:41:14
Gene Pugh: Yes. OK. The A Shau Valley was due west of Phu Bai. OK. And the A Shau Valley extended itself into Laos.
 
00:41:39
Gene Pugh: That's where the alpha targets were the alpha targets was the extension and b national Valley in Loas and a very dangerous place to be. My first mission as a team leader. Mind you as a team leader. We've laugh for 10 and we landed out in the first helicopter claimed lives in the second helicopter and as soon as he landed in fact he was in midair but he was he jumped. The enemy that was there at the tree line started shooting at us. And we got pinned down on no. Umbrellas any other helicopters but made a 360 degree turn. In the meantime the cover gun shoots remaking the tree line. And of course we were shooting into the tree long the third gunners were breaking into the tree line. And it was hell on earth on our first helicopter came down picked up the first half of the team that took off the second half of the team for the helicopter came in picked up the second half of the team we took off I threw red smoke after the lousy signifying that it was a free fire zone and there was a lot of holes in that helicopter and you could hear pinging the bullets would ping through the skin of the helicopter and then later on that afternoon Patty Grant was a forward air controller called me up and you should be. Do you want to still go back in. And so I looked it was around those three thirty four o'clock and I looked at Quinn who was long gone and my team leader and he said agent which is your mission your call you know whatever you want to do. So I called up Bob happy Grant and I said I don't feel like dancing with the devil tonight.
 
00:44:10
Gene Pugh: He said OK. So we got in the helicopters and we flew back to Da Nang sometime around seven thirty eight o'clock somewhere in that time period. Here comes constantly tracked into the 12 o'clock. We had a little lengths club there. She walks in and he looks around and he sees me and makes some beeline to me me That's all on my shoulders and he's like some words that.
 
00:44:48
Gene Pugh: Anyway it's not proper to say in mixed company and it usually ends. I flew back to that.
 
00:45:01
Gene Pugh: Zee that I was going to drop you off then and he said that she was banking the airplanes that were banking. He could look underneath the trees if there was a lot of. Lot of enemy there and a lot of enemy sure you would have never made it out of that alive. Insurance would be good. Good call John. And in fact I can look to me. Thank you. Good call that man.
 
00:45:30
Gene Pugh: Good call. General. So that means that you are one of the hotel targets. Quinn did not. He was a team leader on Maclin and the same thing happened to us. We got hit right on the elderly. I mean big time. And in fact we had one two three four missions back to back and we got hit on the elderly never made it into the tree line.











