00:52:25
Amanda Li: So you were in Vietnam from May 68 to May 69.
 
00:52:31
Gene Pugh: That's correct.
 
00:52:32
Amanda Li: So President Nixon won the election while you were there in November . What did you think of his proposals on the war or you and your peers families? 
 
00:52:52
Gene Pugh: In November December of 1968 a proposal presented to President Johnson to do an airbourne and Marine invasion of North Vietnam. And he said and I'm going to kick this down the line to the next president. So I'm sure enough. January 20th 1969 President Johnson left office. President Nixon took over he was proposed with this idea of the invasion of North Vietnam. And he said no. So that's when he sent Kissinger started to do that backdoor negotiation stuff to get the peace treaty of 1973 which was good. However at the time Nixon had a strong Republican  backing to back up the South Vietnamese.
 
00:54:27
Gene Pugh: Once you Americans no doubt funk however the Republicans lost the House or the Senate Democrats anyway anyway and grab onto the name of Frank Church and a couple of others renege on giving help ammunition material supplies and everything else to the South Vietnamese but not to enemies realize that.
 
00:55:10
Gene Pugh: And that is why you had the Easter Offensive that brought down the South Vietnamese government in 1975.
 
00:55:25
Gene Pugh: Because the Americans under the Democratic leadership to remember that Nixon was a Republican and he promised to not only in the South Vietnamese that he would support a but the Democrats didn't do anything about it. And that's one of the lessons of South Vietnam was lost and it's all in if you look at a tried and true history what people tell you that if you measure a political history book A won't trust me there's a big difference.
 
00:56:12
Gene Pugh: So we can look at it from those of us that were there and experienced it you know get the truth.
 
00:56:25
Gene Pugh: If you have a politician tell you about who's going to tell you that's every tale. And that is where Nixon came in Nixon was betrayed so his intentions were good his intentions were very good. Had the American Congress backed him up chocolate mom would still be shot on the anyway.
 
00:57:03
Gene Pugh: Anyway that was it. So that's my take on Nixon.
 
00:57:31
Amanda Li: So as like your time in Vietnam started to come to a close, what did you feel, especially since you couldn't tell anyone back home about what you were doing this entire time? What were your thoughts at the time?
 
00:57:47
Gene Pugh: When I came back because I had a huge anti-war sentiment and there were more of them than there was me and I didn't know who the enemy watch would go to a party.
 
00:58:06
Gene Pugh: And you just basically keep your mouth shut and all these people who started talking about banjo vengeance kept your mouth shut because you knew better. You knew the truth. You knew what was going on.
 
00:58:24
Gene Pugh: And so I became very very bitter and not against the war against the propaganda that was being spilled out or spewed out by certain people and I had gone into some heated discussions with some people and then I found out that it was not worth my time which is to waste my breath on these individuals.
 
00:59:06
Gene Pugh: It would be like telling someone you don't play with the cobra. The Cobra is venomous snake bite you you'll kill you. That's not fair to you. But COBRA is a very much nice snake don't play with there's going to barge that tackle the individual you know you are.
 
00:59:31
Gene Pugh: Trust me I met a lot of them and they just didn't see reality lives up there in la la land somewhere. And then later on somewhere along the line I don't know what happened to them. Maybe they took a smart girl or something and then all of a sudden they started to think more clearly and then they would open up and say you know what you mean I was wrong I don't know. Yeah I said yes you were wrong. But at that time they were sure about their level level. Snow on the lenses and now I'm more of a realist.
 
01:00:37
Gene Pugh: As you could probably tell I do a lot of research and I learn. If I don't learn anything that day it's a wasted day.
 
01:00:52
Gene Pugh: And I love to research and have a talking head just talking about and they start making all sorts of accusations and everything else I know. Oh really. Let's talk a little bit of research so I do a lot of research and I go these guys are idiots. How can you tell all these stupid things and still people still keep your job.
 
01:07:49
Gene Pugh: We were going back to our base. When I came back there was a lot of long animosity towards the Vietnam veterans, did not talk about Vietnam.And besides if I told them what I did they would never believe me anyway.
 
01:08:20
Amanda Li: What did you feel when they declassified those Special Forces missions in 97?
 
01:08:25
Gene Pugh: a big relief. Not only that but when we would go to the V.A. hospital to get our benefits and what have you. Prior to that they would they would say that we were you know lying and that we were full of shit to all sorts of stuff and they were terrible. What about this. Well I can't talk about it but we can't talk about it was classified initially and so we couldn't we really really couldn't talk about. And so a lot of our benefits were denied.
Yes, A lot of our efforts were denied because they couldn't prove it.It was classified.
 
01:09:36
Gene Pugh: LeTourneau For example there was a target area. Nickel Steele was a target area that was on the western side of all of South Vietnam Loas, and North Vietnam. He had those three countries bordering each other like that a little little South Vietnam North Vietnam and Laos like right there where almost three countries link up. That's what we call the Nickel Steele area. Well Michael Steele was heavily heavily differentiated with Agent Orange and very good friend of mine by the name of Doug LeTourneau the famous Frenchman went to that area in November November December of 1968. And when he went in there I remember him telling me that the defendant the agent orange looking dripping off believes. Well Quinn and I went in there in February March. The latter part of February first part of March of 1969.
 
01:11:03
Gene Pugh: And there was no there were no leaks there was all this old and it was all dead kind of like um [...] here and they drop this in what we call the brown area and then we worked our way into the green area and spent the night the next morning until we got into a fireball with the bad guys and we were able to eventually evacuate that big strike that a little hole in the jungle. Anyway long story short there's a journo the Frenchman and Spanish stage four cancer. Okay myself I have prostate cancer. Hopefully it's all gone but that stuff in my heart where I had my bypass was a result of that Agent Orange also.
 
01:12:16
Gene Pugh: So we're still paying for it and I get another mission in the zoo area in January and 69 and that area was heavily before me made it also and we spent the night there and the next morning we went off for a ball with the bad guys and got extracted out of there. And that was an interesting firefight.
 
01:12:59
Gene Pugh: So now we were up on Wellesley the landing zone and we were going to do all we call up your w snatch and we were going to snatch these guys out but they didn't want to be snatched. So we ended up in a firefight with them. And little did we know that they were the front of the other company that was coming up the trail behind them. We didn't know that. And. And Larry Larry Trimble and still not on one side of the LDC where a good portion of the team battling the main source of the bad guys. And I was on the back end of that on the east side of the V.A. and there was a platoon of about 30 guys trying to sneak up behind us or on the flank us. So myself and. And look we're not trying to keep this to keep their heads down. And it was interesting. But the main but the main battle was on the north end of ideology. That's where the main battle was fighting. I lose the company of guys up there which is about 100 yards or so.
 
01:14:39
Gene Pugh: So it was extra exertion out out of the O.C. really difficult to maneuver through them going out was extraction extraction sorry out of the O.C. really difficult to accomplish.
 
01:14:55
Gene Pugh: They. No they didn't they. They came in the forward air controller was able to lay down a base of all a rocket fire. And so he was able to lay down some white phosphorus and as he did that the helicopters came in a light underneath him landed picked up the first half of the team which was the I was on that particular extraction and took off. And then Quinn and Larry took off on the second one. And as soon as we took off we started to drop grenades over the bad guys and sentries were extreme exceptions down there like ropes or something. So you were sweating.
 
01:15:46
Gene Pugh: Yes that's a phone call coming out. Is that what they call the glider rig or coming out on strange. Probably dropped in his ropes but 100 feet long underneath the helicopter and we will snap them on to our harness switch seat that we would make out of rope and then the helicopter would lift the up and we would fly fishing out under two thousand feet underneath at altitude and it gets cold up there going and there's nothing going 70 miles an hour at altitude. I mean you're losing your butt off.
 
01:16:31
Gene Pugh: And then we realized oh my god I'm hanging down just by one. And so it's interesting and I try not to look down.
 
01:16:51
Amanda Li: Right. I was so afraid of heights.
 
01:16:54
Gene Pugh: Yeah. And I saw that's it. It's interesting. I mean it is really really interesting. I don't know what you're more afraid of being shot at or being out there.m
 
01:17:12
Amanda Li: Anyway back to after the war. So you are married?
 
01:17:28
Gene Pugh: I am married. Yeah. No children no children.
 
01:17:31
Amanda Li: How did you and wife...
 
01:17:35
Gene Pugh: Well the thing about it is there are a lot of us in random Northern missions and does not it not in London and lost a lot of the guys that did to have had those missions. Their children have medical issues big time. And I would say that luckily I certainly don't have any children. I was not able to pass on this poison to my offspring so now we have two cats, and I'm retired now.
 
01:18:26
Gene Pugh: And I write books as you well know. Yes. And I give talks. I go to left W's a little react to Rotary Clubs and bonds that will see you basically. And I will give a talk for about 20 21 minutes and I talk about the unit I talked about MACVSOG and I talk about the men I don't like about myself because I don't want to talk about myself. And I talk a little bit about the book because I tell him that what the book is someone you're not an option is the story of the unit and the men and and that's when a told floor 19 to 21 minutes I trying to maintain their attention.
 
01:19:38
Amanda Li: Yeah that's really nice. Do you have any just like final thoughts or comments about your experience how it changed you, because it's a big deal now?
 
01:19:55
Gene Pugh: One thing those of us who have survived, we've been given a second chance. We've been given a second mission. A lot of us don't know what that mission is because it hasn't been revealed to us yet by God, by Lord Jesus Christ. Whether that mission was to help out a young lady by the name of Amanda I don't know. I hope it is easier to make a difference in somebodies life. I hope so but the actual mission has not been actually specified.
 
01:21:05
Gene Pugh: In monetary terms you could be in direct action but when you have someone directly you could be an advisory group. But you can be in a Manchurian group such as what we're going to globally when I support our short strength Oh whatever. So each day the mission changes and that's why I'm giving that second chance.
 
01:21:39
Gene Pugh: And it's become more and more prevalent I should say look my five graph bypass coronary bypass open heart surgery because technically I had what they called a little like my arteries reclined up and I got a brain you know walking across the street wherever you have been given a second chance and a mission.
 
01:22:23
Gene Pugh: I mean I don't know what that national heritage but whatever it is I'm prepared for it. I mean I'm ready whenever that mission is. As you get older we want to be sure. Our experiences to the younger group so that way they don't make the same stupid mistakes that we made and on.
 
01:22:56
Gene Pugh: But in some cases we have to let the younger go. The younger generation make those mistakes so we can learn and I've them that I've mentioned some some young people and I see where they're going with it and instead of merely just saying don't do it I let them do it and they learn instead of me saying watch out for that you're going to get hurt. I know you're not going to get hurt seriously.














