Transcript
00:00:00
James Hart: In fact boot camp was interesting because the very time you arrived there... and it's funny because we all the people that we're going to meet we all met in Dallas. The people from Austin, San Antonio, stuff like that. We met in Dallas watching the airplane out but there were cars coming from Kansas stuff like that, none of these football players play football. You know they claimed I had a hard teacher I'm in charge of this whole group and they have the football veteran. In so they bullied us full year round. Tell us what you did. So we got to San Diego. We'd get out. And there's a DEA waiting for us and they bring these cattle cars. That's the whole cattlemen and I say everybody on bus. And he starts throwing people in the bus. When you get to San Diego into the Marine Corps Depot. It's 9:00 at night, if not later. They are for unit night and there's reason for it psychologically. And then they make a stand on these two yellow footprints. And I even have a doormat yellow footprints on it. And you just stare up and there's some thing written on the wall. And Marine Corps creators I talked them know what it says but this is to put a stare at it. And so I stared at it and drill instructor came over one of the new drones stepping into it. Big guy. And hey everybody is over six feet tall. Or half Letterman Jack not like that. Bozo from Kansas. That was a hit in the face. Knock him down. Yeah. And the reason I did that was because every man's changes and changes only as strong as the weakest link. And he told us that everyday. So they want to everybody get down to the same level and then build everybody up together. You all let's go back for somebody to slap. Always. And they pounded in every day.
 
00:01:53
James Hart: So after they did this amusing mockery eyeglasses that bent down squalor. You know I was in the safety zone. Then they send you in to get your haircut. And it's really funny that you smell. You smell burnt flesh when you go and everything. You have seven or eight barbers in there and put you in a seat and they said OK if you have a mole or anything on your head put your finger on it or you're gonna lose it. And then some. Next thing you know you're staring at this freak looking at you with no hair. It's like real, it's me. So then you know all this stuff they listen.












