Transcript
00:00:00
James Hart: My name is James Hart. I was born on April 29 1949. I was drafted into the Marine Corps, I grew up in Germany. What else? I'm not ....
 
00:00:13
Amanda Li: It was fine. So, tell me about your childhood.
 
00:00:19
James Hart: We traveled a lot. We came to the United States in 19-hour trips when I was turned into four and we went to a station at Cape Canaveral Cocoa Beach where they brought all the scientists and stuff. We lived right across the bay from Cape Canaveral and we would watch the barges come out and pick up the rockets that were tested and dropped the parts of it would drop into the bay there and come pick it all up. So it's kind of interesting when we came to Texas from there and.
 
00:00:54
James Hart: Stayed in Texas for a while then were transferred to Arizona which Davis Air Force Base which is really cool because that's for the graveyard of all their plans. Now all the airplanes that flew and more or two anytime the decommissioning and put them in this big parking lot in Davis Mountains because of the dry conditions. So it was cool going out there and getting going into the older planes. So in that time he never came back. He retired from the Air Force. He became a policeman at the University of Texas.
 
00:01:26
James Hart: My mom's waitress all of her life at risk and my dog and I worked the whole the house. Oh well until you get drafted.
 
00:01:37
Amanda Li: Do you have any siblings?
 
00:01:38
James Hart: I have an older sister who's two years older, and a younger brother, one year younger. I've a half sister younger sister I can't remember. How. I say six years. I never kept up with her. We have close family. We still have a close family probably gotten a lot closer after my parents passed. My dad passed away in 89. My mom passed away in 2001.
 
00:02:06
Amanda Li: Do you think your dad inspired you to going to the military?
 
00:02:11
James Hart: Well it was not much from my dad. You know I grew up in a time when combat shows were on TV like they had combat tours at twelve o'clock high they had a number of WWII shows, repertoire which about Africa in Africa.
 
00:02:29
James Hart: And you know it's just you know I grew up playing you know soldiers and stuff like that. It's just part of growing up.
 
00:02:39
Amanda Li: What did you do in high school?
 
00:02:41
James Hart: Not much. I didn't pay attention. I quit in 11th grade and I'd actually moved out of the house my parents house with my I was 15. And moved into an apartment with two other guys.
 
00:02:54
James Hart: Still went to school. We still work and you know. My mom took pity on me she told me the longer met one day and I was washing my clothes with Ajax.
 
00:03:06
James Hart: The powder is scouring and she says just bring your laundry over to it. So it was a kind of fucked up cool that I didn't have to wear pleat shirt.
 
00:03:18
James Hart: But it was it that I was ready to move out my parents always taught us " if you think you're ready, go ahead. You know you can always come back to it."
 
00:03:32
James Hart: There wasn't any there wasn't any real conflict between my parents like some kids moved up to that. But it was one of those things where, you know, I actually got to be my mom got to be my best friend at that point when I could go over there and we could see it. She'd be doing my laundry and we'd talk for hours just about anything after all my students.
 
00:03:58
James Hart: One of my roommate was drafted into the Marines cause he would draft and I think he volunteered. Is that a good share. I can't remember special long ago but he was actually encased on with the artillery there. My own brother went in in 1968 early for last quarter 68 and 69. My brother had a tough 17 years so when he went in and he saw major battles where I was exposed to boot traps all the time. We had a few conflicts but never never these all day long battles and anything like that. I remember he didn't talk about it much but we've gone fishing sometimes and he'll tell me stories about you know being totally right you tell me stories about the first operations you're on. He was there having crawled up this hill and they were getting mortar by the enemy just dropping around on top of.
 
00:04:57
James Hart: It's hard to defend against a mortar but he just sergeant was pretty close to him and Sergeant started saying something and my brother looked up and down farther was a sergeant with the upper torso and he had arms Trestman and blah blah he's just sticking up for my son. This is 17 years old as a lot to take in. And also being a trauma nurse you know. And he told me you told me some fairly gruesome stories.
 
00:05:28
James Hart: They landed an amphibious landing near the boat landing things two to that one. And they got the logistics wrong. They landed three miles on the north side of GMC. And they had to fly to where I was one of forty two that was evacuated. You know without any serious injuries; he had jungle rot and shit. But Pete would actually start to come off when he put boots off. But he was one of 42 that actually made it out there. Another company came and helped him dig and hit pretty hard too. They were constantly fighting people, that couldn't see these the North Vietnamese would be hiding in spider holes. Spider hole was holed up in the ground well camouflaged and unit patrol to find some; they just pop up. Mark was shot hit somebody and go back into it. And it is hard to. They were so devious so skilled at camouflaging. It's amazing that I had nothing but respect for the North Vietnamese or the Vietcong. I really never had any animosity toward the enemy whatsoever. Because. If you stop think, they were just like us. They didn't want to be there anymore and we did. But if called upon them to do their job then. You know. I learned a lot more about Vietnam and the history of Vietnam after I got back which you know. I felt we were on the wrong side supporting the French in Vietnam.
 
00:06:56
James Hart: But that's neither here or there now.
 
00:07:06
James Hart: When I finally went back to school I was a year and a half and everybody else. So I had back back in the ninth grade. It was actually in junior high. Yeah seventh eighth nine ninth and so I fell in the world geography class. And so bad Tom went back to school. The ninth grader moved up to high school. Nine ten to twelve. So I was in class with ninth graders when I was senior. And I had a mustache and. A family first kid graduated the first year. Crockett opened. In sixth grade. So. I was a Hezbollah responsibility being in charge of the class some time particularly and. That. Yeah.
 
00:07:55
James Hart: You know I graduated and you know I knew what was coming. I was there for my brother. He was back already here. When I graduate from boot camp, he met me down from graduation day for you young have one day to spend with you or your family or friends who ever comes down to San Diego to see.










