Transcript
00:00:08
James Hart: No. In fact you know it is strange when I left and got on. Two months by a civilian airline and I expect you know if I want there would be somebody jumping up and down and say say we left the left airfield once plane. Got out treatment and it's just deathly quiet. There was not one person said a word.
I mean that's the way it felt to you. I didn't know what I was coming back to. I was scared to death. I had no idea what to expect when I got back. And it wasn't long before I realized I'm talking about Vietnam trying to share those stories, nobody really want to listen. Nobody wanted to know anything but how many people are killed or something they know about the people I met dead in war or know that the people that just civilians that I really liked and you know they didn't want to know that stuff they want to know the cause. And I quit. The only reason I even told them. But as long as time was I got a job at the post office and get a job as postmaster. I was a combat veteran and I was just so I got 10 points credit which gave me a passive scope which got me into the post up. I did 31 years. But there wasn't. You know what.
 
00:01:30
James Hart: Until I met Don and his group he just recently formed Texas Association Vietnam and they had an event on town like two years called off fest which was a big deal and asked about me. I don't know why I was down there.
 
00:01:48
James Hart: But I was at one of them and they had a bunker setup like it looked bunker knowing you know with the sandbags and the mosquito netting in the chem function they were doing hot dogs and stuff.
 
00:02:02
James Hart: So I started talking to him and then realized that you know we were all that Don and Ron his brother and to US marines we were all in the same area and we all slept in the same cemetery and stuff like that. And I was able to open up find because it was haunting. It was getting to me cause there was a day I got back that I didn't think about Vietnam. I thought about Vietnam every day and every night you know I didn't share that with you you know. There are a lot of things I didn't share. It was one of the classes early on. Makes about 2000 10 or subtracted the first total. But Mr. suicide attempts and I did that because. I started reading about so many kids in high school but attempt suicide and so I thought I'd share that story with him. It was until I went through that program in Waco that I really got the help I needed to do it when I was getting. Anything to the level of a need to cope with it. And.
 
00:03:09
James Hart: I can't thank them enough not the program itself a couple of people that worked up there at the time cause they were the ones that actually made me come to terms with it and then actually hearing feedback from their peers. I didn't even tell I didn't tell my mom. Or my brother. That temperatures that my family didn't know dying before I do it quite often.
 
00:03:32
James Hart: And I've started telling it every year because I got so many letters from the past about kids that have thought about it and had or had a friend or had a grandfather a kid. And. You know this is something that. You know I was extremely ashamed to admit it. You know one of the things that. You know it it's not something that readily admitted you know. And I had had help in it for such a long time but it. It did.
Cause me did create this situation where I knew I needed to get more help. I was getting here and I went to an inpatient program. Which. Gave me for the first time. A reason to believe it could have been different. And that's. I thank them for that. It's just always know the words again.
 
00:04:28
James Hart: In fact even when we got a letters and there was kids that thanked me for that because they thought about it daily they've had situations where they felt need and you know if I can help one kid you know come to terms with it and actually realize that you know it doesn't have to be final. You know it can be you know that's it's a thing. Every year I tell back out on one two decade date one started the whole program Becky Stuckey and you know she'd been after.
I had read the week before. You know it's like I I don't like getting up and talk in front of people and I don't care. I mean there was times a classic where I'd have to stop get going. I think I just took this know it's like but you don't realize you know whether or not she told it or not. And I just. I have to catch myself. There were times that were there were three of us during it and you know it really. I'm so glad Don and I went back just to because we have a lot of stories. I mean there are a lot of stories out there but.
 
00:05:36
James Hart: You know we get it. I think we would cover a lot of area that you know from the books and stuff like that. I mean I'm not trying to be selfish when I said Donna I shouldn't do it. But don't have been doing for such a long time.
We can but he can tell he can remind me so I can move my own story. It's difficult. We have so many stories in our head. I mean. I can look at some pictures before you know I read some but I've got every letter this year students have written me over to 2007. Every single one of them. And. You know some of her predictions there which you know that some people don't feel like writing anything. But if they fact some of them say they will look at veterans in different tone out that they will actually take the time to stop and think it better because you know if it done I must stress you know so few people in the United States actually take that step to serve.
 
00:06:36
James Hart: So you know I'm a patriot. I don't I don't particularly like what's going on with our government. But I've I've got an unfettered right to that opinion. You know I. I actually remember one time my wife told me to get out of Clive's movie her night or politically opposite. And we were going to look at some properties we had. We do a lot of investing and stuff. We were looking her property. We were going down Congress and we were listening to this and there was talk this back with the Bush administration in power. They've done a bipartisan study about the Iraq war and thought they know that and they finally concluded they were talking about it on business and you know I hope they really learned something about that because they were selling mistakes made just like any other war. You know mostly mostly started by a lie or misinformation. I hope they learn from this. I I really know how these people feel to rock. To rock the. Because here we are going in there. At night pointing guns at them and their family yelling at them in language they don't understand and they don't know if they're going to be shot of fear and stuff that you see on the faces. You know I witnessed I take firsthand what I said to them we are terrorists.
 
00:07:52
James Hart: And she's tired. She looks at me you think whatever she is. Get out the car. And she was serious. And we sat silent for a few minutes and I said you know. I can't think of one thing that you could have ever said to me that maybe would make me react like that. And then she it was quite for a long time. But she's you know her ideas were we're not the terrorists we're the with safe is what we're America America is not that great forest wars. It's my family surveying into people that suffered the most. The collateral damage I hate that artist like.
 
00:08:30
James Hart: There. You know when bombed a funeral or a wedding party you're creating more enemies. Even though it's an innocent party you're creating more enemies for everyone else. Roberts hatred is a killer. But you killed her. You know ever. And it's like why we're doing this. You know why are we operating like this on false information that we actually take out civilians thinking that one person might be a bad guy. You know it just I don't understand it. People are. You know it's OK when you get these drones that are in Nevada firing at people in Iraq you know that's a complete turn away from the war. The same like the pilots up in Vietnam is the same thing.
You know you don't eat don't look at it from the ground. When you see it from the ground is a whole different picture. It eat. You hear the suffering you see the suffering you witness the suffering end. And when you look into their eyes did you see something you never see in your life and you hope you never see a thing like that. Because it will haunt you for the day that you for years afterwards. I mean I.
I tend to see a sentence for first time I was drunk and I couldn't get. I had a lock on my trigger pistol. I couldn't find the key and I couldn't get the Bronco. So now. Just in the past. Now. Second time I took us to get a lot of folks. And. You know I started walking down the middle of traffic at 10:00 at night. Miller. Finally tipped me off somebody stopped taking. No. It's awesome Hotspur they're on my back. And that's where you learn all about the great stuff you have to drink chocolate.
 
00:10:15
James Hart: And if you can't drink it they force it down. I mean it's it's nasty. And they held me there for three days and then they take me down and say show proof. But to insist I voluntarily went in show proof cock block up until now. Yeah. So I didn't get income treatment there but I know at that time that I had to do something or after and finish the job. I know I couldn't tell my parents but my dad at our best when my mom was suffering from. Emphysema and she was she passed away in the same year that I went into treatment. That was a big. A big blow to me. You know I've had both parents when they passed away. And you know I never let my mom know. Which. I don't think she could have taken anything in my.
 
00:11:14
James Hart: Teeth. She was suffering enough to see what she had in mind. So for me to. Help her. Once you know one night. Once I got.
 
00:11:33
James Hart: The feedback from that group that when I explained we had to relive trauma in the program in Waco and Hooper was out of counseling and he was a combat veteran medic. So he saw operation any hate conducted in every room stop flying strong and lights lowered them. And you had an abortion type situation where you had 15 and there there were also in group and you had to relive through your traumas during your six weeks there. Well.
I guess I could have told my trauma. Matter of minutes it wasn't something that you know he's going to dwell on hunches and tell the story of it. He he sat next to me and he.
Made me to sit. Now close your eyes and imagine this shit look at this. Look at that smell.
And I've seen that two hours passed on which to answer passed. I was so drained and I wept the first time about the incident with the village. I'd never I'd never been taken so deep into. My past. Where I had to actually come face to face with him. He took me to where I was avoiding for so many years just. And then you know once you know we got settled down calm down I think I couldn't if I would've had if I would have had to get them can't trust me or I couldn't have done it. I was so so weak and just so exhausted from telling the story from experience that trauma again that when I've got feedback. And then brought the first one that. I.
 
00:13:24
James Hart: Wanted to taste up to was telling it you know had I not done that murdered that village that we would walk into a big ambush and there was there was literally no place for us to walk. It was the drive they'd padding between us and the tree line.
 
00:13:42
James Hart: And there was no cover if we did we would be caught out Bill. And you know that's just you know there would have been casualties. And. It's just like. I never know why had I never thought that. My. Head in never even. You know I knew we got fired from the village. That's why I fired the rounds. Why had I not. Thought. We could walk into an ambush. You know it just. It was. Like I just saw something for the first time and.
You know I just I've never. I just remember standing setting foot in that village and just continuing through that village and never once thinking anything else that it could have been any other situation. For that. That gave me the strength I needed to realize that I would never trust you again. The. Ghost. I ghost. You know there are always gonna be there.
But they're not. They're not coming anymore they're they're there to remind me to not do to pass maybe enough. I feel like you know there's no situation that I've come to sense it can take me back to that period where I was. I just. I can't imagine myself ever going to that extreme again because it is time you know I have something I have something that I can pass on.
 
00:15:28
James Hart: I volunteer a lot to do Meals on Wheels a lot. I have a great number of friends that I respect and I hope they respect me too. I've. Turned my life around many ways and that's. All. That was all due to that one. That. One. Class. That I was involved with and made it just gave me the truth I needed to. Make peace with myself and any choice I need to. Go forward. And that's done great. You know. I just. To.
 
00:16:10
Amanda Li: To our generation, what would you say about the Vietnam War?
 
00:16:19
James Hart: Yeah. I think like Tom and I both I think everybody should do their part and serve some point even if it you don't have to be incompetent that are if I see somebody with a cap on sabbatical I always take the time say thank you. I don't care. When he was in combat or he just supply clerk or something like that you know we think about just one percent. And really now it's even harder because the one person having you so much more time and time again. I mean when the Iraq war in Afghanistan where you had guys going back five six seven tours. How much how much do you owe your country at that point. You know it you know they're going to come away. They had the percentage rate of Vietnam veterans come back saying 7 percent PTSD the percentage of Afghanistan and Iraq were 27 percent.
 
00:17:14
James Hart: And we had guys that were in the group that were from Iraq and Afghanistan. And you could tell. I mean never. They were mostly upset they were ahead and it had to do a lot of it had to do with civilian casualties. I don't think anybody prepared to do for you know civilian casualties to a point where I mean you see it so often and you.
 
00:17:41
James Hart: Don't quite understand it now that you know sometimes people say well there's just no way. Other times you know like when the incident happened with my mom there was something we got rewarded for it which I know he repulsed me. I went to three days in country or an Bob. But I didn't master malfunction. I don't even remember country during that time.
 
00:18:05
James Hart: I just don't care what I did that I'm good at the pictures but I don't know one thing that happened that was memorable. It just passed and. That's just I hope the kids understand how important is what veterans do. I think more than anything they need to take time to study what you can do for your country what you can do for veterans and then someone should get involved. It's just. You know I I always expect you to military. I never thought of anything else that I would do I wasn't going to shirk it. And you know at that time I didn't know. You know there was more than 1 percent during the Vietnam War. I was drafted in really if you recall the draft. And put people's kids on the line like you did in Vietnam. You would have bought it or you would have much shorter awards because people might see their kids in harm's way. And. You know I just think it's too much to ask for the armchair army to do what they do because they're good and they get pushed around to get it. You know they really. Have stepped up and. For them they're going to have a lot of problems. If I have to keep on doing it for themselves because I get tired of fighting for other people. You feel like at some point somebody else can do it. You know you can't do it forever. And I think that's what they kind of come to expect. It's a long journey and they can't do it. So I think for kids thinking recognize. What part you can do. And you know take the time.
 
00:19:50
James Hart: I mean two years isn't a lot of time out of your life. You know even if even it's just working. I mean you can even learn a skill. You know you do a lot of things that don't have to do with combat and you can actually benefit from on the outside. Plus get G.I. Bill you get benefits from doing all that. And it's. Count for a lot of people I think it's good. It probably have less kids on the street. You know when if they had to go in motion we had about a third of my boot camp. We had 90 I think ninety six guys in boot camp on the go and a third of them were to go to jail. The Marine Corps we had one guy that he was a.
 
00:20:29
James Hart: He was a stickup man. We can't stick up there because he would go and practice some trees in the woods holding him up. It would take a gun. He would literally go in the woods and try to hold up to different trees in our helmets. Stuff like that the practice and then when you actually went into a convenience store he dropped his gun and got caught so he never got caught in the woods.
 
00:20:52
Amanda Li: Do you have anything more to say?
 
00:21:02
James Hart: I'm open to questions.
 
00:21:04
Amanda Li: I was wondering, in boot camp or in Vietnam, what did y'all do for fun?
 
00:21:11
James Hart: We played cards. I mean we had there was a lot of downtime it was just it wasn't there wasn't battles all the time. I mean there are booby traps all the time but you know a lot of times which is we've set up in an area and you know like 10 months Ensign we're up at Fort LC Ryder which is slanting down right away is way up in the mountains. And we were had these little had these little.
 
00:21:35
James Hart: Quonset hut a little bitty one make what he had said we'd have. And we'd put out a bunch of Claymore mines you know that once a clerk and we'd have a tonight and downtown where they're in trouble ever had was with rockets which were rocket. And the reason they called rockets as you throw something out of the structure or it's over nature and then they drove back sometimes.
 
00:21:56
James Hart: So but we had no other instant but it was still wet up there and there were so many Marines getting drowned down in the valley. So we were lucky to be up to.










