Transcript
00:00:00
James Hart: We got our orders. What our final destination of the else was to your man. I knew I was going to Vietnam. I was the only one I got sent to Hawaii. For some reason I'll miss a sign mortars that I got sent to Hawaii and I couldn't understand. You know everybody else got to be in awe of us they had for years a go at a place like that. They sent me a colony or a Bay Hawaii. And. I hated it. I hated it. It's just you had to get so many jobs in Hawaii that had an out for you. I told you about one class where they would come in and they made proper pants and see if your skinny shoe underwear had to be marked three inches down one to the left. They have keeps that fit out of your footlocker because your locker had to have one of every uniform pressed represents your teeth. So from there I went to a mortar school.
 
00:00:59
James Hart: On the big on Hawaii which is kind of neat because we've got to go on weekend liberty in uniform but they weren't so accustomed to having Marines on the big island.
 
00:01:09
James Hart: So you know they were very friendly. They will buy you drinks and bars to mark that Brand who are armed. A lot of work Kyle was it was kind of like they didn't like Marines at all. They had to. Six others had to chip in to rent a car window and then a car got stolen. Yes. Listen. You know this is tough that. After a finished mortar school. They sent me back to Kenya and I had to go through life from school. We did all of our all of our stuff in the fall.
 
00:01:48
James Hart: We had to learn how to retrieve BLACK AND GET DEAD WEIGHT FROM THE BOTTOM. Anybody would dare come out. You'd have to get back to shore. And I was able to give up found chair sure they got launched with Bassett at all. Shallow men. Then we had actual NCO officers that would act as trauma victims in these guys who literally tried to drown you. Because they wanted to apply panicking or anything. And the first thing panicking did to just try to crawl up on top. So I was watching the first couple that did it and I saw what happened you said under some time I got to my dog.
 
00:02:32
James Hart: One reason came up behind him and put his head in a headlock. And I had his other hand hit my mother hand every time he tried to fight me.
 
00:02:39
James Hart: I pulled ahead underwater and I got him back to that I got him back to safety. I said if I ever see you on the street you're dead. So I tried to avoid streets.
 
00:02:54
James Hart: And then all of a sudden were given orders to go to Vietnam. They had every was restricted to base and we went. And. We stopped in open on the way of course which baggage. Yours are your personal items stuff. You put him in a C bag and you storming. The Philippine. Economic. When I got to Vietnam it is like you get off the airplane you've got starch cap on. We flew over 130 big transport could see 130 which isn't commercial plane. It's the Air Force plane. And we come off the airplane and you have starch cap and all that and also it just melts because the humidity. Is. You. Know. You know it starts stinging your eyes and you come in you're flying into Danang. And you spend a couple of days there getting all your stuff is shit and you give you your weapon. Now I got sent to Ann Walsh first base I went into unit. To. Get off the helicopter and I'm going cross the tournament because I've had a tarmac where planes could land small planes land. And I didn't realize at time that we would walk on water and. Artillery.
 
00:04:09
James Hart: Up on a hill right above us and all of a sudden they did a fire machine to the book and I'd never heard so much noise in my life. The filming and stuff that just went everywhere and I didn't know it.
 
00:04:21
James Hart: Don't cry scream. But we went the captain who assigned us to our unit and I was with kilo 3rd Battalion 5th and reach. But I remember reading above the dock that the captain's. On a warrant and he said You have nothing to fear except fear itself. And I remember that from day one you know because I was always you know it's you know always was kind of fearful of the night. Stuff like that and you know come to relax you know it's going to put a lot of time out during the night with real fears. And. So first night I spent up in a watchtower. With three other Marines who were accompanying one of us and trying Franco who human our stupid friends you know we had no incidents that night that I really I got to see a starlight scope which one like Dawn brought in that big tells them which showed everything up in Green which was the first the first prototype. It was. If it's an uneventful light night. And second night of that year same thing. It wasn't until the fourth day I was in country that I went on my first patrol and we went off for an long. And we out. Of five kilometers at this point. And I was sixth man six people back in the company I was with the lieutenant the radio man I was part of the. Command post because he would direct fire if they needed fast mortar. And then we heard a big explosion in the point man. At this point. Ended up having both of his legs hit and actually blown off.
 
00:06:19
James Hart: And he was it was a man detonated the command detonated booby trapped in that booby trap. She's ahead. You're on that trip or you're attempting causes you to do it but the mandate. Somebody's been watching us in horror at a device that actually set the ship off so we start finding anybody.
 
00:06:42
James Hart: You got a middle of everything. He ended up leaving but he lost both legs. Somebody had met him in San Francisco where he had gone there for treatment. So that was my first mission. My first real. I felt like I was thrown in the water just like you know and realize that you know it doesn't mean you can. Doesn't know. You don't know when it's going to happen. Uh. You know I'd add you get complacent after time first and so scared you trying to get everything you think of everything you need to do. And why wouldn't you fire base from which 25 miles southwest of the name. We ran all of our operations off there for the longest time the first time I went into a. Hot Time Zone. And you know what I mean by hot firing some you're going in by helicopter and all of a sudden you're taking rounds.
 
00:07:44
James Hart: You're being shot at from the ground as your own helicopter. So there's already battles starting on ground. And you're having to sit down in the middle of it and the helicopters that we were in a Chinook. Forty seven Army hit forty six and we have 46 they had 47 the 46 and they're the ones with the tail that it goes down in the Big 12. When they sent us out I was one of the first helicopters that on the first for they went out. They had literally more people in it. This poster was not unusual for Marines.
 
00:08:21
James Hart: And when I got on the plane I had to stand up on the last post and get up in the wrong place and stand up. I was on the tailgate which was up it was up a little bit but I had at this point I had nothing to hold on to that I couldn't reach anything to I was standing there and this thing is you know turning sideways and stuff like that kids when they come in for landing they always turn sideways and very.
 
00:08:45
James Hart: Well here. We started getting rounds actually going through the chopper and people were getting you know you know we're a big target. And I see the toddler grass and we're starting to come into land.
 
00:08:59
James Hart: He's starting to level out and come down and I jump. Well I didn't really like to get 13 feet tall. I hit the ground. I had mortar rounds on my chest and on my backpack and I hit the ground and I started tumbling. The rounds went everywhere you know everything to finding. There was so much shooting all round and I look up and I can't tell you I woke up and it's gone. I can't see the men. They're gone. Good. All I could see are the tall grass so I realized that right now I'm looking. At.
 
00:09:34
James Hart: All I have is my weapon but I can't leave the moderates could use them against us. So I can let more more arrest close I can call them out if you like. We rent my backpack and John Kennedy trauma weapon fire it. So I start to make my way back toward where all the shooting is. And luckily I found our group within a very short time frame by frame. I get back to them. They say what do I support. And almost then. Someone our own artillery was called in on top of us. They saw a former interpreter who calls in artillery. He apparently saw us.
 
00:10:14
James Hart: Out there and thought that we might have been the enemy. So he called in artillery strike right on top of us. And. Here I have already had to go see the lay down. And now we're getting bombed shot at by our own artillery which is in the movie if you hear that the whistling. Yes it does whistle.
 
00:10:32
James Hart: You know he really does whistle. And they were hitting just above us and you know I'm just going. So we get to finally get together and we have a few more skirmishes close to her where we set up. Then no incidents that night. Ever since then there are so many times that. I felt like I was blessed because there so many times that I would go out and ambush and because I was in 60 mortar we were completely portable.
 
00:11:08
James Hart: We went everywhere the company went everywhere patrols went you show all the time to have a mortar. Even if it's just a small 13 14 person patrol. So we were very well put to use a lot. And I remember we set up we left the firebase early. We left the firebase early. As soon as it started getting dark and within a couple of kilometers started setting up getting ready set up and we're going to go a little bit further and set up an awesome or. An ambush. An ambush Davis from little further down shift down maybe a hundred yards from us. No it isn't what the hell's going on. No it's you know trying to get confirmation. And it was. An Army South Vietnamese army patrol has fourth wandering taught walking toward us. They trip the ambush to the NBA a Vietnam overhead and setup course and they took the ambush before the gunfire. So it's like you know and when you're in a jungle at night you know during what you're shooting at.
 
00:12:16
James Hart: You know you tried. Try to figure out where young people are. But I mean there's so many times when there's no moon it's dark it's dark out there and you just everybody's down in the grass. I don't know. Shouldn't he try to listen for the rifle. Because the two rifles the M16 and AK47 two distinctive sounds. Well they also used M16 times at the.
 
00:12:38
James Hart: So you know it's tight sometimes you know whether it was your own unit in that what they.
 
00:12:46
James Hart: There were so many you know you had to try to figure there's so much you had to process especially in the early days after a while you get very complacent you know and that's when I got shot at by the sniper. That's I was complacent. I. Know and I had I don't know why I was chosen and the only thing I can think of is I didn't have carry a rifle I carried a pistol and shot. So a lot of straw did that a lot of machine guns did that and a lot of mortar guys did that. And that makes us a target of opportunity. It wasn't because that they had had that I could look you know it wasn't.
 
00:13:27
James Hart: So what exactly happened at that time?
 
00:13:28
James Hart: Oh we were sitting. We were sitting up and we stopped at a luncheon and I had those we call them wrong right. But the long rations which is freeze dried and I. Put some. I had beef stew or something like that and I switched on water in that and then I got a bottle of Hornets last night about ready to put the hotspots the rockets when I've been down to pick up the hot stuff this tray exploded right next to face I was like I got splinters in the side of my face. And that's when I realized you know before I realized I peed all over myself you know it's just not much of a shock. That you know I was picked out of you know that I was actually so close to being picked on. You know and that's when you start to realize that you know. And of course we never saw you know could like Don said. You know you got to be six a seven or eight hundred feet away. They don't hear that you don't hear a shot which makes it it was scary.
 
00:14:30
James Hart: It is. It makes you realize you know maybe you've been there on warning stop. You know you have to start using brains again.
 
00:14:43
Amanda Li: Are there any other memorable moments in Vietnam?
 
00:14:48
Amanda Li: There were actually some funny moments. We were on a long operation and we were high up in case on mountain versus. Up an iron core. And We were getting some new new recruits coming our way.
 
00:15:09
James Hart: So it was getting toward dark and we had supplies coming in also. So we had like three helicopters that were coming in. So we were right up on a ridge line and the recon line at one point it just kind of slowed down until the guy goes down the hill. All the other first two helicopters came in and they laid there. They face this way in the back. Tailgate it came down despite as everything came off the last guy helicopter is getting dark and he won't go back. So he landed here with tailgate over here and these guys who are brand new. They had their helmet strap came out at high Port arms like they were getting ready for battle and then she went to drop off into the abyss. You know it's like.
 
00:15:55
James Hart: And then I had to go down and get him in the medevac because all of them ended up with broken bones and stuff that you know is is kind of funny afterwards. You know it. You know those things we could laugh about it was interesting. We had we had the same thing when I. When I didn't I was over there February 71 the 1st Marine Division which I was a part of started Stand down. And when. They did that I had a choice of either going home.
 
00:16:26
James Hart: By boat or extending stay over. I don't like the ocean. I really don't. I'm sorry. Going back to the swimming deal the last part of a swim test first. It took us nine miles off the coast which swim back. Again. I hate the ocean but I came in second in that but I said Cause in the first four part that qualified me and they said well we're going to you don't have to go to Vietnam. We're gonna send you to San Diego to be a lifeguard. All you do is sign up for years.
 
00:16:55
James Hart: And I said there's no way in hell I'm going to sign four more years to be in the ocean. I'm not going to stay anyway.
 
00:17:00
James Hart: You know think did drown me they're gonna drown. I'm gonna go and get them and then same thing when I had a chance to go home by boat turn those boats around if I'm off the boat you know. Did you have a helicopter on board. You can just have to swim back. And there's sharks to follow the boat control with breathe. So I chose to stay over there and they switched me to a different company. H&H country which is. The main come to one wonder has all the supplies of stuff named movie to eighty one mortars which were much bigger at three mile range and would also were stationary. They put you up on a hilltop supporting a group set up on a hilltop supporting a recon team and we worked off that who upon time time. You had to learn you had to know a lot more about you had to be able to read a map. We had to be able to do compass readings and you had to be able to sign it because you had getting. To North Pole that you set out and you fired off those folks. So it was a lot more involved in 64. You could just you know you didn't have to worry so much about. You had an idea I could judge the ranch just by by sight how much how far that round's going to go by the increments you put on the back of the fence which hit the bottom and then by the elevation I got we're good at that in Hawaii when he taught us not to do that. But the 81 was a lot harder. Oh when we're on that hill supporting the recounting we had we had a lot of trouble with crossed the valley. There was a bunch of caves in the NBA soldier or perhaps fire safety five millimeter rockets at us. So we tried different things. We call it napalm airstrikes and stuff like that and name on it doesn't have to hit you if it hit near Cave. It sucks all the cave to suffocate you. But still didn't work so they sent one of six reporters rifle. Which is a one shot big big. Gun. And it's.
 
00:19:11
James Hart: Got a flare back to it chambered from the back and put it in anything from behind a high explosive rounds. And it would knock out that cave easily. Well first round they did when they tested it just do a fire machine stuff to get it fired. And try to get it out from the back. Well it. Didn't work either. So some idiot each get down in front of it and he's. Below it and it's above and right here.
 
00:19:42
James Hart: And he gets the cleaning rod which is a big cutup. That's our special channel cuties. And he's helping on the farm in my car. And at this point Dead. So it goes off and it definitely killer I think it took both of these soldiers out of socket blood on him and then we had to go down the hill and get this guy. Know it was. It was.
 
00:20:06
James Hart: It was it wouldn't didn't do us a whole lot of good there. But we got to run. The second night I was up on the hill at 4:00 in the afternoon. They hit us and they went on to four o'clock that morning and we had a we had an interpreter on the Hill. And it just means really small hail. We had 281 guns but I mean you couldn't even land a helicopter except for the small heroes. I had to. I was in charge of those guns so I had to go between this gun all night long to fire. We were firing rounds almost straight up. Because they were they came into the line. I mean you didn't have any barb or I just had nothing but open ground. You had the fighting holes would put around it. We had one group that we had to kill. We had one kill within four feet of our gun pit. That's how close they got. And they were lobbing grenades all night long. The next morning went out of Fort Bragg where I mean you just sit there and you just staring and you don't know what you're staring at. It was so surreal, it passed so quickly. I wanted to kill that interpreter every time he stopped talking. They would hit us harder. I mean every time he said one word they were they were relaunching attack to get distributed pretty tiresome because I mean you know you try and we have the mortar who's the tube sticking right above that are gone it will keep coming in. But Assange is fighting the flame coming out. Which damages the giant Target. And we had we had called in artillery but they couldn't use any high explosive. We were still far away from any sort of help but they could give us illumination flares. Well. All of a sudden now you have another problem because once the flare canisters separate from the parachute you've got this big ol five pound cache coming down. And if it hits you it's going to knock you out to kill you. So. It was a long night and it's just.
 
I remember just being so dead tired and not realizing what all happened. I mean we just kind of cleaning up. You know we gathered up. We had no 100 which was surprising but after one guy actually they were gonna put him in for a medal and he jumped on a grenade. Then it turns out that when the grenade landed and then pit in the fighting got everybody else scrambling. They ended up pushing him back. Was it different from what he thought wanted. Well the pin had come out of it so he didn't get hurt or anything but I mean we've we had we had new people in the rear that were monitored during this. To. The war we're standing down from the Marines. You had all these. Officers that were captains majors or written accounts in the Pacific theater that had to get Vietnam on the record. We called it ticket punching because they had to get to take a punch to ever hope for any motion. If you don't have that a new Marine voter I mean you know you can get passed over time and time again. So here you had all these people that had no qualification for being commander. In fact the one we got signed up time was. A. Supply commander in Hawaii.
 
He made it have we had an incident. He wrote Our attendant up for court martial because he used too much ammunition for the amount of bodies that we had. And you know it was. You know started I couldn't believe how stateside. It's just like you know we just thought twelve hours. You know we fought for our lives and he's worried about the ammunition used. And then he made it mandatory that a Marine on patrol could not have rounded his weapon unless he was point man on it on the patrol the one in front of. You could not throw a grenade out unless you had permission from sergeant or above in the rear which sucks you know. That's right. And then he wanted boots shined in the field. He wonders if he flew over and harder when he went wanted the chin straps out there have fractures but we should think it's hot in there. It's really miserable. And you just don't do that. And so it gets so bad that just like I couldn't wait for him to be over. And. So when it finally came time to go you know. Packed up. Spent two days in Oakland open I and I was home.












